# Information Systems

Business Structure

Any business of more than one people must adhere to one of the following business structures:
- Line Structure, typical top-down business structure, CEO->Managers->Workers
- Functional Structure, organised along main structures such as marketing, finance, production, etc.
- Divisional Structure, structure is divided based on geographical distance or different products.
- Process-based structure, structured along business processes with cross-functional teams.
- Network Structure, Independant units that may interact with each other, or with external sources.

Businesses should have a strategic plan, that - in short, sets goals for a business, and describes in detail how this goal will be achieved.

A method known as "Gap Analysis" is used to determine the distance between the goals of a business, and the current position of the business. There may be either a transformational or transactional solution to these problems. The importance of this strategy is to show the specific actions that need to be taken to achieve the goals of the business.

Movements of processes within a business are known as flows. A physical flow is a movement of parts, components, products, and anything else that actually moves physically from one department to another. A Data flow is how data moves within a business, showing what the business needs, modifies, or produces along the way - what is typically known as a "paper trail". Finally, reports and analysis are the Information flow.
