
# 04/08 Notes

### Installation of an Operating System
The operating system can be installed on the system either physically, or run on a virtual system.
Both can coexist on a system, known as a "dual-boot system".

Today we will install both Windows and Linux on a system
This will be using both physical and virtual memory.

### What is an Operating System?
An operating system is the interface between the hardware and software components of a system. It is required to provide functionality to the hardware, and for software to be accessed at all.

### What are the tasks of an Operating System?
An operating system manages software, and facilitates communication between software and hardware. It additionally manages input, output, and other external devices.

### Process of Installation
It is relatively simple to install an operating system - the important stage is the preparation for installation.
The first step is an external device, with the operating system pre-installed on it, to be run on the "shell" system; this is referred to as a "Bootable" peripheral. In order to load the operating system from the external device, the boot priority must be adjusted to ensure the operating system is loaded from the new copy. The boot priority can be adjusted freely through the BIOS.

### How to make a "Bootable" USB
A particular tool - "Rufus" - is an open-source software used to onload a .ISO file of the particular operating system to a USB. This particular file format will allow the BIOS to run the file as the main operating system. .ISO files for differing operating systems can be acquired through a variety of means, to be run through Rufus, with a viable USB inserted into tha machine in question.

